To open the terminal, press Ctrl+Alt+T in Ubuntu, or press Alt+F2, type in gnome-terminal, and press enter. In Raspberry Pi, type in lxterminal. There is also a GUI way of taking it, but this is better!

**Basic Commands**

**1. pwd**	To know which directory you are in, you can use the **“pwd”** command

**2. ls** — Use the **"ls"** command to know what files are in the directory you are in. You can see all the hidden files by using the command **“ls -a”**.

**3. cd** — Use the **"cd"** command to go to a directory.

**4. mkdir & rmdir** — Use the **mkdir** command when you need to create a folder or a directory. To delete a directory containing files, use **rm**. But **rmdir** can only be used to delete an empty directory.

**5. rm** - Use the **rm** command to delete files and directories.  Use "**rm -r**" to delete just the directory.

**6. touch** — The **touch** command is used to create a file.

**7. man & --help** — To know more about a command and how to use it, use the **man** command.	**man cd******cd –help****

**8. cp** — Use the **cp** command to copy files through the command line. It takes two arguments: The first is the location of the file to be copied, the second is where to copy.

**9. mv** — Use the **mv** command to move files through the command line. We can also use the **mv** command to rename a file, just like **cp** if we want to rename the file “**text**” to “**new**”, we can use “**mv text new**”

**10. locate** — The **locate** command is used to locate a file in a Linux system. “**locate -i hello**” If you remember two words, you can separate them using an asterisk (*). “**locate -i \*hello\*this”**



**Intermediate Commands**

**1. echo** — The "**echo**" command helps us move some data, usually text into a file. **echo hello, my name is alok >> new.txt**

**2. cat** — Use the **cat** command to display the contents of a file.

**3. nano, vi, jed —** **nano check.txt** I recommend **jed** text editor.

**4. sudo** — A widely used command in the Linux command line, **sudo** stands for "SuperUser Do". You can enter the root command line using the command “**sudo bash**”. You can also use the command “**su**” to do this. “**sudo passwd**” to set a root password or modify.

**5. df** — Use the **df** command to see the available disk space in each of the partitions in your system. If you want it shown in megabytes, you can use the command “**df -m**”.

**6. du** — Use **du** to know the disk usage of a file in your system. If you want to know the disk usage for a particular folder or file in Linux, you can type in the command **du** and the name of the folder or file. I.E. “**du Documents**”. You can also use the command “**ls -lah**” to view the file sizes of all the files in a folder.

**7. tar** — compress and uncompress different types of tar archives like **.tar, .tar.gz, .tar.bz2**, etc. "**tar -cvf**" for creating a **.tar** archive, -**xvf** to untar a tar archive, -**tvf** to list the contents of the archive, etc.

**8. zip, unzip** — Use **zip** to compress files into a zip archive, and **unzip** to extract files from a zip archive.

**9. uname** — Use **uname** to show the information about the system your Linux distro is running. Using the command “**uname -a**” prints most of the information about the system.

**10. apt-get** — **sudo apt-get install** "package"; update your repository:**sudo apt-get update** upgrade the system:**sudo apt-get upgrade**, upgrade the distro by typing “**sudo apt-get dist-upgrade**”. “**apt-cache search**” is used to search for a package.

**11. chmod** — Use **chmod** to make a file executable and to change the permissions granted to it in Linux. “**chmod +x numbers.py**” “**chmod 755 numbers.py**” to give it root permissions or “**sudo chmod +x numbers.py**” for root executable.

**12. hostname** — Use **hostname** to know your name in your host or network. “**hostname -I**” gives you your IP address in your network.

**13. ping** — Use **ping** to check your connection to a server. “**ping google.com**”, it checks if it can connect to the server and come back.



***Tips and Tricks for Using Linux Command Line***

1. **clear** command to clear the terminal
2. **TAB** can be used to fill up in terminal.
3. **Ctrl+C** can be used to stop any command in terminal safely. If it doesn't stop with that, then **Ctrl+Z** can be used to force stop it.
4. You can exit from the terminal by using the **exit** command.
5. You can power off or reboot the computer by using the command **sudo halt** and **sudo reboot**.



In particular, C programmers should note that you should **never** use **#define** to define a constant! Instead, use **const**:

```
    const int BIGNUM = 1000000;
```

```
% g++ -c foo.cc
```

where "%" is the unix prompt. This tells the compiler to run the preprocessor on the file **foo.cc** and then compile it into the object code file **foo.o**. The **-c** option means to compile the source code file into an object file but not to invoke the linker. If your entire program is in one source code file, you can instead do this:

```
% g++ foo.cc -o foo
```

This tells the compiler to run the preprocessor on **foo.cc**, compile it and then link it to create an executable called **foo**. The **-o** option states that the next word on the line is the name of the binary executable file (program).

The normal way of using the linker is as follows:

```
    % g++ foo.o bar.o baz.o -o myprog
```

This line tells the compiler to link together three object files (**foo.o**, **bar.o**, and **baz.o**) into a binary executable file named **myprog**.

we also recommend that you use the **-Wall** command-line option:

```
    % g++ -Wall -c foo.cc
```

The **-Wall** option causes the compiler to warn you about legal but dubious code constructs, and will help you catch a lot of bugs very early.

'Droid Sans Mono', 'monospace', monospace, 'Droid Sans Fallback'



   White (No color code) Regular File or Normal File.
    Blue Directory.
    Bright Green: Executable File.
    Bright Red: Archive file or Compressed File.
    Magenta Image File.
    Cyan Audio File.
    Sky Blue Symbolic Link File.